README.md, before:

# Microsoft Teams 'Get Started' sample tab app

This is a basic example tab app for Microsoft Teams.  When it is added to a channel, it enables the user to choose whether they want a Bing Map or a Google Map in their new tab.  When it is removed from a channel, it offers (pretend) options for the user to choose whether the map is deleted or retained online.

This app is used throughout the Microsoft Teams [developer documentation](https://aka.ms/microsoftteamstabsplatform).

## Prerequisites

An [Office 365 account with access to Microsoft Teams]().

**TODO make this a link to setup.md in main docs repo**

## Run the app

1. Download the [tab app package](https://github.com/OfficeDev/microsoft-teams-sample-get-started/blob/master/package/MapsTab.zip) for this sample.
2. Create a new team for testing, if necessary.  Click **Create team** at the bottom of the left-hand panel.
3. Select the team from the left-hand panel, select **... (more options)** and then select **View Team**.
4. Select the **Developer (Preview)** tab, and then select **Upload**.
5. Navigate to the zip file and select it.
6. Go to any channel in the team.  Click the '+' to the right of the existing tabs.
7. Select your tab from the gallery that appears.
8. Accept the consent prompt.
9. Select the type of map you want, and click Save.

## Adapt the app yourself

This sample works because its [configuration page](https://teams-get-started-sample.azurewebsites.net/tabconfig.html) and [removal options page](https://teams-get-started-sample.azurewebsites.net/tabremove.html) are already hosted in Azure at `https://teams-get-started-sample.azurewebsites.net`. If you want to adapt this sample, you'll need to edit them and host them yourself. Since Microsoft Teams requires all tab pages and content to be served over https,

1. Clone the repo
2. [Optional] Make a simple change to the visible text in the `public/tabconfig.html` and `public/tabremove.html` pages. This will help you later to verify your own copy of the tab is running.
3. Host the `tabconfig.html` and `tabremove.html` pages over https (see below for options).
4. Navigate to the `package` directory.
5. Edit `manifest.json`:
   1. Change `id` to your own domain in reverse notation.
   2. Change `configUrl` to the address of the `tabconfig.html` page from step 3.
   3. [Optional] Change `accentColor` to some color other than the default. This will help you later to verify your own copy of the tab is running.
6. [Optional] Make a simple change to `maps44.png` and `maps88.png` in an image editor. This will help you later to verify your own copy of the tab is running.
7. Zip up `manifest.json`, `maps44.png`, `maps88.png` into a new tab app package called `NewTab.zip`
8. Upload and test your new tab package, `NewTab.zip`, using the [instructions above](#run-the-app).

> **Note:** To re-upload an updated package, with the same `id`, click the 'Replace' icon at the end of the tab's table row.  Don't click 'Upload' again: Microsoft Teams will say the tab already exists.

## Host tab pages over https

In order to protect customers and their data Microsoft Teams requires all tab pages and content to be served over https. If you already have a preferred method for doing this then feel free to skip this section. Otherwise, here are a few options to get you started.

### Using ngrok

1. Install [node.js](https://nodejs.org) if you don't already have it.
2. Navigate to the repo root and run:
    1. npm install
    2. npm run start-ngrok
3. Use the https URL displayed on the command line as the origin of the `tabconfig.html` page in step 5 above. It should look something like `https://<partial-guid>.ngrok.io/tabconfig.html`.

### Self-signed SSL certificate (Mac only)

1. Install [node.js](https://nodejs.org) if you don't already have it.
2. Navigate to the repo root and run:
    1. openssl req -x509 -newkey rsa:2048 -keyout key.pem -out cert.pem -days 365 -nodes
    2. npm install
    3. npm run start-ssl
3. Use the https URL displayed on the command line as the origin of the `tabconfig.html` page in step 5 above. It will look something like `https://localhost:3443/tabconfig.html`.

### Using IIS (Windows only)

**TODO add instructions**

### Deploy to Azure

**TODO add link to instructions**

Commit message:

Add instructions for trusting self-signed SSL cert

README.md, after:

# Microsoft Teams 'Get Started' sample tab app

This is a basic example tab app for Microsoft Teams.  When it is added to a channel, it enables the user to choose whether they want a Bing Map or a Google Map in their new tab.  When it is removed from a channel, it offers (pretend) options for the user to choose whether the map is deleted or retained online.

This app is used throughout the Microsoft Teams [developer documentation](https://aka.ms/microsoftteamstabsplatform).

## Prerequisites

An [Office 365 account with access to Microsoft Teams]().

**TODO make this a link to setup.md in main docs repo**

## Run the app

1. Download the [tab app package](https://github.com/OfficeDev/microsoft-teams-sample-get-started/blob/master/package/MapsTab.zip) for this sample.
2. Create a new team for testing, if necessary.  Click **Create team** at the bottom of the left-hand panel.
3. Select the team from the left-hand panel, select **... (more options)** and then select **View Team**.
4. Select the **Developer (Preview)** tab, and then select **Upload**.
5. Navigate to the zip file and select it.
6. Go to any channel in the team.  Click the '+' to the right of the existing tabs.
7. Select your tab from the gallery that appears.
8. Accept the consent prompt.
9. Select the type of map you want, and click Save.

## Adapt the app yourself

This sample works because its [configuration page](https://teams-get-started-sample.azurewebsites.net/tabconfig.html) and [removal options page](https://teams-get-started-sample.azurewebsites.net/tabremove.html) are already hosted in Azure at `https://teams-get-started-sample.azurewebsites.net`. If you want to adapt this sample, you'll need to edit them and host them yourself. Since Microsoft Teams requires all tab pages and content to be served over https,

1. Clone the repo
2. [Optional] Make a simple change to the visible text in the `public/tabconfig.html` and `public/tabremove.html` pages. This will help you later to verify your own copy of the tab is running.
3. Host the `tabconfig.html` and `tabremove.html` pages over https (see below for options).
4. Navigate to the `package` directory.
5. Edit `manifest.json`:
   1. Change `id` to your own domain in reverse notation.
   2. Change `configUrl` to the address of the `tabconfig.html` page from step 3.
   3. [Optional] Change `accentColor` to some color other than the default. This will help you later to verify your own copy of the tab is running.
6. [Optional] Make a simple change to `maps44.png` and `maps88.png` in an image editor. This will help you later to verify your own copy of the tab is running.
7. Zip up `manifest.json`, `maps44.png`, `maps88.png` into a new tab app package called `NewTab.zip`
8. Upload and test your new tab package, `NewTab.zip`, using the [instructions above](#run-the-app).

> **Note:** To re-upload an updated package, with the same `id`, click the 'Replace' icon at the end of the tab's table row.  Don't click 'Upload' again: Microsoft Teams will say the tab already exists.

## Host tab pages over https

In order to protect customers and their data Microsoft Teams requires all tab pages and content to be served over https. If you already have a preferred method for doing this then feel free to skip this section. Otherwise, here are a few options to get you started.

### Using ngrok

1. Install [node.js](https://nodejs.org) if you don't already have it.
2. Navigate to the repo root and run:
    1. npm install
    2. npm run start-ngrok
3. Use the https URL displayed on the command line as the origin of the `tabconfig.html` page in step 5 above. It should look something like `https://<partial-guid>.ngrok.io/tabconfig.html`.

### Self-signed SSL certificate (Mac only)

1. Install [node.js](https://nodejs.org) if you don't already have it.
2. Navigate to the repo root.
2. [One-time] Generate a self-signed SSL certificate and trust it:
    1. openssl req -x509 -newkey rsa:2048 -keyout key.pem -out cert.pem -days 365 -subj '/CN=localhost' -nodes
    2. sudo security add-trusted-cert -d -r trustRoot -k /Library/Keychains/System.keychain cert.pem
3. Run the following commands to start the server:
    1. npm install
    2. npm run start-ssl
4. Use the https URL displayed on the command line as the origin of the `tabconfig.html` page in step 5 above. It will look something like `https://localhost:3443/tabconfig.html`.

### Using IIS (Windows only)

**TODO add instructions**

### Deploy to Azure

**TODO add link to instructions**
